i think as computer enthusiasts we've
probably all been through this at least
once we get all wrapped up like planning
and building a sick new gaming rig and
we're like super excited and then we
realize as we're plugging it into all of
our old peripherals that maybe it would
have been wise to save some of our
budget to upgrade the rest of the
experience
oops
so today's video is gonna be something a
little special we are going to be
attempting
to take this broken monitor which we got
on ebay ebay for 120
and make it a fully functional aorus
ad27
which is a 600 us dollar monitor new
with this replacement panel
that we also got
on ebay oh that one was aliexpress oh
what would you say our success chances
are today
they're either
like 100 or it just doesn't work it's
like all or nothing speaking of all or
nothing check out glasswire at the link
in the video description glasswire
allows you to instantly see your current
and past network activity detect malware
and block badly behaving apps on your pc
or android device use offer code linus
to get 25
off glass wire again that's linked below
[Music]
monitors get broken in transit all the
time and because their housings and
stands are typically made from
reasonably robust materials the most
common thing to die
is the panel itself i've actually had it
happen where a monitor like tipped over
in its box
i took it out and
boom gigantic crack across the screen
so
finding broken monitors on sites like
ebay is actually usually as simple as
searching a gaming monitor
for parts or broken or damaged gaming
monitor and you should have a whole
bunch to choose from
now we went with this one for a couple
of reasons number one is that it's a
pretty darn nice monitor we actually
reviewed it a while back it's only free
sync but it's one of the few freesync
models that nvidia actually signed off
on as a g-sync compatible so it's a
pretty no compromises experience
and it's got a bunch of great features
2560x1440 resolution hdr support uh one
millisecond response time uh what else
has it got
ips panel it's a pretty sick monitor
especially for
120 bucks now should we fire this thing
up and see what happens uh sure i can't
think of any reason not to
might as well just make sure that it
is actually broken maybe we got a
working monitor for 120 bucks so once
you find a broken monitor that you like
on ebay
i'd recommend finding that you can
actually get the panel that you want
before
pulling the plug obviously so go on
something like panel look and search
your monitor model number and then
you'll be able to find the panel number
which you can then put into aliexpress
or somewhere similar and find out how
expensive that's going to be to get it
shipped to you i'd recommend getting
something from
acer asus or lg they seem to be the
easiest ones to get panels for samsung i
just had no luck for at all same with
alienware how lucky are you feeling
today um
in this situation like zero
[Laughter]
this is powered on seems to be seems to
be powered on it's detected
so
and it's cracked
yep that's yep that's definitely broken
that's a kraken
actually since we have it here sanity
check
nope the stand seems to be just fine no
this is actually like a super decent
monitor so it's been a while but i think
with these
no bezel ones you kind of have to pry
this up is that right do you know how to
disassemble this no i couldn't find
anything on disassembly it is pretty new
the good news is we don't really have to
worry about yeah being careful with it
yeah
oh i'm making progress
you want a real man screwdriver
nope
i don't think that suction cup's gonna
help
oh here we go uh that sounded like a
couple clips broke but uh
this is broken then engaged
hey
it's really in there
maybe it doesn't need to come out
well like when we're done if you're able
to use the menu that would be pretty
great
i think they're just
really
really big clips
hey nice
now it's coming out trust us we're
professionals
we've got some some attachment doodads
here what are they called again
uh
yeah
i'd give that a solid like c-plus for
cable roading
so now things should get a little bit
simpler we've just got a handful of
screws to remove i mean is this the
point where we should pop out our
replacement panel and see if it even
physically looks like it might go in
here
yeah okay
i think i get more concerned than you
because i'm typically the one paying for
them oh
well like the idea of this was that
in the end i just want to buy it
because
so
oh so we're building your monitor right
now basically yes oh
wow how'd you pull that scam off
that was literally like the entire idea
for the video i was just like
i'm too cheap to buy a monitor
so this looks this looks really close
yeah that looks right so this one guys
we're only laying it down like this
because it does have a protective
covering on it
but uh
this
little piece of the housing here looks
identical this pcb looks the same
all these mounting points look the same
i'm not saying that makes this a
guarantee
i'm just saying that
makes our chances a lot better than if
they weren't the same okay so as long as
this is functional this should work
now some of this stuff we don't even
have to detach necessarily actually how
is that even attached it's just taped on
that's pretty typical oh okay i know
right really i know because it has like
mounting holes on it no no that i've
seen this before i swear huh
in doing the research for this i was
actually shocked at how simple it is to
just make your own monitor
maybe that's the next stage yeah try to
salvage this tape if you can because
there's no real reason not to reuse it
boop
okay
that's the part where uh if i
accidentally bridge some of these
contacts because i'm sure there's some
pretty decent sized capacitors on the
other side i could die
that's fun
okay you were paying attention to where
this was routed right yeah it goes down
to here so this right here is the cable
that carries the data from the display
controller and scalar this unit here
to the panel itself so we don't want to
bung this up that's presumably kind of
hard to find a replacement for oh yeah
so there's pretty much no point removing
this tape
from the plastic frame because we just
want to slide our new panel right in and
then
lay the tape back down pretty much
yeah
remember that lga 3647 motherboard you
broke oh yeah that was rough actually
that wasn't rough had one to us like the
next day
that doesn't make it good
so that's it the training wheels are off
there's no protector on the panel now
yep
all right
that was relatively simple
i kind of wish we'd taken a picture
before we
took everything apart but honestly it
should be fine okay so that seems to be
cable routed yeah um this one i think
goes in here yeah get that lined up just
right so we can tape it on
there's a like a ridge here oh yeah see
how it kind of settles in there so i'm
ready to put in the other side of our
ribbon cable it's not too delicate of an
operation compared to working within
like a notebook or something like that
there maybe you could give me a piece of
tape to hold it down
this has been too easy
i'm getting concerned yeah
well the same thing happened last time
we replaced a panel we just popped it
apart smacked it back together and we
were like okay so that's it
theoretically this is assembled now
should we test it before we bother
putting it totally back together i was
about to ask you the same thing
i kind of like the drama better if we
reassemble the entire thing
okay wanna line me up here oh hold on i
got a few cables to put in
yeah gotta hook up that rgb yeah those
are really important ones all right do
you remember how this went in i think it
slid the bottom had to go in first right
yes okay
there we go come on
oh there we go
see how many of these clips we didn't
break
actually there's not that many clips
broken what are you even talking about
this is on here perfectly fine yeah it's
pretty good no one's going to be able to
tell
all right here i might as well plug this
in here since you're holding it
hey
is the panel on um yeah it was briefly
um can we put it on the stand yeah it's
just like kind of difficult
there you go
okay so so far
the rgb is working both on the back of
the monitor and on the stand
that's a good sign
i don't know that this has displayport
1.4 so it probably won't be able to do
the full thing but that's fine we can go
get a gaming rig to test it properly if
it actually works
how do i even display on this
there we go
see theoretically it's on
uh oh
no could it be that there's more wrong
with it than we thought oops i think i
just turned it off i mean that's the
thing about a broken product is it could
be broken in more than one way do you
know that your mini dp works
it's worked in the past
let's get something else
what pump is this uh oh that's corsair's
new one oh cool yeah it's their hydro x1
it's actually made of like
clear nylon
so it's like super
like
durable and won't stain and stuff or
something cool
i gotta tell you i'm having doubts so i
guess it's the moment we find out if i
get a monitor or if you get a monitor
yes
just like that okay we need a keyboard
mouse then so does this thing work it'd
be pretty unfortunate just to have like
a crosshair oh nice
dashboard
one potential snag right now as we can
see it's clearly running at 60 hertz so
we don't know if that's because
it
can't run it more
yes
uh yeah i would wait until i actually
see it running
yay
not
too
shabby
huh
all right let's grab dead pixel buddy
yeah this is kind of like the second
moment of truth right here
so the thing is guys just because you
got a compatible panel doesn't
necessarily mean that it's an a panel
maybe you got not an a panel oh okay no
no no no that one was fine just a piece
of dust
okay black looks good
so we want to turn it green so we can
look for something like uh a red pixel
that's standing out to
us looks good
i don't see any blue pixels standing out
no dead ones
no oh what's that
i think that might be a dead red pixel
bomber
i'd say you actually did pretty well
here
yeah yep i think you've got a dead red
sub pixel
so he's got one third of a dead pixel on
the whole panel and it's not right in
the center
so one thing that's also really possible
here is that the calibration could just
be
completely off
i'm going to take the time to actually
use our display calibrator and put it on
here but for anyone else
a pretty good method is just take
a piece of paper put it up there change
the rgb values in your monitor osd and
boom
i'd love to know if g-sync works though
that's interesting
well it didn't pick up g-sync
compatibility
um what drivers are on this it could be
old actually
so one odd behavior
is that i noticed a little bit of
fringing on the display earlier
and it turns out that
it's running at 4k even though this is a
1440p panel but then it knew to run it
at 150 percent scaling so everything
looked the right size
but there's a little bit of uh
sort of there's some artifacts on text
so it doesn't look crisp
we're gonna get the graphics driver
installed though and that should fix
that okay moment of truth time here
set up g-sync
all right
freaking awesome
so i guess that right there is kind of
why
this is a good idea as opposed to just
buying
a cheap monitor
because this is in the end with the
panel and the
like broken monitor slightly more
expensive than just buying a 1440p 144hz
display yeah the original plan was we
were going to get the panel for closer
to like what 150 180 bucks sounds like
140. and the whole solution was going to
be about 300
but now what did we end up with
yeah so it's been like two months the
order was cancelled three times
and in the end we paid
more like three hundred dollars for the
panel so that's still 180 less than new
for a very respectable
g-sync compatible gaming monitor
and what
45 minutes of time
yeah something like that
well for the actual upgrade not the like
all doing all the research
well the research was pretty quick too
the two months of cancelled orders on
aliexpress weren't too fun
so this is your new monitor then yeah
see there's good ideas for videos and
then there's good ideas for videos
that are also because i'm really cheap
don't include that
i think that's fine too
that looks good not bad
not bad at all i need a better gun
do they have head shots
um i think on those if you get them like
when their mouths open it's extra damage
ah okay this is awesome you should try
it
all right
speaking of awesome and things you
should try freshbooks freshbooks is the
small business accounting solution built
for how you want to work so whether
you're a freelancer or a small business
owner it's a simple way to be more
productive more organized and to get
paid faster with freshbooks you can
create and send professional looking
invoices in less than 30 seconds you can
set up online payments to get paid up to
four days faster you can see when your
client has seen your invoice to put an
end to the guessing games and you can
take the whole experience with you on
the go with their fully featured apps
for ios and android so check it out at
freshbooks.com tech tips and make sure
you enter linus tech tips in the how did
you hear about us section
so thanks for watching guys if you
disliked this video you can hit that
button but if you liked it hit like get
subscribed or maybe consider checking
out where to buy the stuff we featured
at the link in the video description
also down there is our merch store which
has cool shirts like the one i'm wearing
this is our elemental shirt and oh yeah
also this hoodie and our community forum
which you should totally join